hi guys i have my usual disclaimer today
that i'm extremely jet-lagged and tired
i hope this disclaimer is not a
permanent feature of this channel i just
slept from ten o'clock in the evening
until two o'clock in the morning and
there's absolutely no way to get back to
sleep now so i'm going to put together a
video here that i had been planning to
do my first video on why I do not have a
PhD was sort of subtitled part 1 of 2
that was stated on my blog and so on and
I had plans to do a follow-up well it's
interesting to know that the full
immunity today is very different from
what I might have reported even just
yesterday I received an email today that
i did find offensive and i wrote back to
the guy telling him openly look I find
what you have to say here it offends me
uh but the fact that he misinterpreted
what I've already said about getting a
PhD and not getting a PhD I feel that he
sort of he can't be the only one there's
probably there are probably other people
who have responded this information in
the same way so I'm going to start by
clearing up his misconceptions even
though he's just one person who sent me
an email so i'm posting up on screen
here another example of Correspondence i
had with professors about an MA program
leading to a PhD program and again these
replies to me if you pause and read it
they are fundamentally quite flattering
this professor says that my CV is the
best CV he can remember seeing from a
student who doesn't already have an MA
now I haven't given any indication of
that in my first video and again here
this is an example of the kind of
correspondence of had with professors so
I don't know why he has the sort of
fundamentally unsure double
interpretation of what I would have said
about the process except that really I
do have an idea I think that many
students grad students and PhD students
wants to believe that the process
they're a part of is faultless and
therefore anyone who is disadvantaged by
that process who has a negative
experience or doesn't fit into the boxes
they must be blamed for it one point
here is it's very appealing for some
people who are themselves aspiring to
get PhDs become professors to try to
blame me and say that it must somehow be
my fault that i'm not getting a PhD
given my background because it can't
possibly be that there's something wrong
with the system that they themselves
would like to believe in as foulness
because it increases their own status it
increases their own employability they
imagine to think that they come from an
extremely prestigious and powerful
academic system now my point here
responding to this criticism is not just
to clear up that I don't write bulk
emails my problem is not that I'm bad at
write an email on the contrary I think I
have extraordinary amount of experience
at least with writing emails to
professor's about this stuff as even
should have been clear from my first
video but also i am not writing bulk in
personal email i am really engaging in
meaningful discussions of many of these
professors uh you know to give an
extreme example that is nevertheless
illustrative you know there was a
professor in quebec who i will not name
i'm blanking out the names in this this
email too um before I met him I read his
PhD thesis I looked up his other
articles his other published work I
became familiar with his work
and has been quite a lot of money flying
to Quebec staying in a hotel going to
the University and meeting him
face-to-face so this is the situation
that and I did not apply to enter that
program for various reasons now I just
do not know in my former video I
repeatedly referred to visiting
universities and person is speaking
University a space so I don't know how
someone would watch that and come to
this as I say very uncharitable
conclusion that my problem is that I'm
writing in personable impersonal and
thoughtless emails sent in bulk to huge
numbers of professors and not really
engaging with them of their work he also
accuses me of not even having the due
diligence to look at the profiles of
professors that are listed on the
Internet of not looking at their resumes
and not evaluating what their research
interests are and so on and on the
contrary I've spent a huge number of
hours doing that and as I just gave in
that example it sometimes leads to some
kind of fake face to face meeting or
some kind of meaningful engagement now
there's another professor who again i'm
going to leave anonymous but there's a
professor in alberta here in canada who
I have not that face-to-face but we've
had quite a lot of email and that
discussion began with some of his work
that i read i read an article of his out
of sincere interest and not because he
was a potential supervisor for me to get
an MA or PhD so in that case I was
really interested in his work I wrote to
him commenting on his work he wrote back
to me we had a conversation Ivan said
look I've been looking for a graduate
studies program this is my background I
sent him my CV and examples of articles
I've written team red or at least
briefly looked at several my articles he
was impressed and interested and he then
sent me a copy of an article he had
written years earlier that was directly
sailing it to my research it was closer
to the sort of thing I'm really
interested in and I received that I said
Wow and thank you and that article he
sent me
if he didn't send me a copy i would have
never found that article in terms of
where it was published or where it was
hidden and i read that article and we
had a meaningful conversation about it
and again that was completely sincere i
was a fan of that guy's work and i'm
still a fan of him in some sense now
again for various reasons i have not
applied to that ph.d program i'm not a
student there buddy but it's just not
the case though my interactions with
academia have been bulk email or
impersonal or unprofessional or anything
else and nor that i'm lacking the the
very basic first step of looking at a
professor cv or the the online profiles
that the department provides before
talking to them on the contrary I do
start with that and I've moved far
beyond that in many many of these
interactions now the two examples that
his game worth in Canada and the visit
to Quebec was really extremely expensive
it was much cheaper as much less
expensive for me example when I was in
Taiwan to go to from one University to
the next I mean I guess it adds up to
some money but if you're in Taiwan
anyway which I was I visited a huge
number of universities there and i met
this both professors face-to-face and of
course there were other cases where I
look at a professor's profile
publications and they're of no interest
to me that naturally that changes the
process to you find out of it a
professor at department you read a
little bit you say I right away you say
this is not for me or this professor so
very human process and again I don't
appreciate the sort of implicit
dehumanization of me and really a kind
of blaming the victim that goes on that
I got this email that i'm just now
responded to okay so that's the response
to that particular email a god that may
be of a widespread misconception
definitely i mean that's that's funny
because that type of misconception I
have only encountered with PhD students
and not with professors definitely not
with experienced professors and again I
still I have meaningful correspondences
professors all the time apartment
fazendo face-to-face here at uvic just a
couple of days ago I had some very
friendly and useful corresponds to the
professor at university of british
columbia ubc which is a university where
i do not believe i have any option to
get Numair PhD but still there are
professors there who are interested in
my work and just interested in me as a
human being and a totally professional
polite and positive what have you some
people are jerks sometimes they get
emails professors who are rude or
dismissive but that's okay sometimes
face-to-face people are really
dismissive and you get one of the good
things about YouTube is that you have
some sense that I'm not freaking out
about this I mean some people in
academia do not have experience with
other lines of work but these types of
issues exist in every line of work if
you're a salesman selling silk scarves
these are human issues you encounter if
you work behind the counter at a
Starbucks these are issues in real life
that we all have to deal with so I don't
you know I don't expect professors to be
angels and I definitely don't perceive
them as demons either but anyway this
business of saying you know the problem
must be you the problem can't possibly
be what I've already described the first
video which is just a lack of academic
options that match up to my particular
expertise and aspirations and all the
other factors that I tried to lay out
that the problem must be must be a
measured it must be this gaudy or my
personality or running that is really a
very dark and insulting and
fundamentally stupid approach to the
facts that have already taken the time
to lay out very clearly and then some
overlaps way now look I want to hit on
three factors I've done replying to that
email that we're not covered in my first
video now factor number one is simply
that I do not want to become a
university professor and in the first
email the only male to get a post in
this video the email in this video i
just posted if you pause to read at all
you may notice that Professor refers to
me in the future tense as aspiring to
become professor and he actually says
some funny things to reassure me that
although it is difficult
become a professor look at in terms of
the job market in terms the percentage
of PhD students but I should become
professors few issues and he's confident
that he thinks I can do it that I can be
part of the successful minority to
become a professor now for various
reasons I both do not want to become a
professor and I do not believe I could
become a professor many of the
professor's I speak to including
professors here face to face they are
just flabbergasted when you say that you
want an MA or that you want a PhD but
you do not want to become a professor
yourself but this is not the career path
you're looking for many professors with
absolutely no ill intentions that is the
only career path they know and
understand that is the only course of
action they can recommend for you to
follow and they really have very little
to say as soon as the conversation turns
to any other type of career any type of
direction in life now I can sympathize
there are people who have their their
whole careers in the publishing industry
and if you want to talk to them about
any other type of career they can't tell
you that's it their whole life is in the
publishing degree so it makes sense it's
not surprised me at all that that some
professors at least feel this way I
react this way and you know for some
professors there's a bit of hostility
were in some cases I've seen people who
are really interested in having me as an
enemy or PhD student but then as soon as
I say look I am aware that once i finish
this degree i will not be pursuing a
conventional academic career i won't be
going on to become a professor then at
that point they sort of switch tracks
and say well i'm not sure i want to work
with you because for them the only path
they're comfortable with would be
preparing someone like me to become a
lecturing university professor so the
other huge issue that i'm not talking at
length about here simply because i
already made enough youtube videos on it
i forgot in a sense how good my earlier
videos are dealing with first nations
languages i went back and watched my
video explaining why i am currently
learning japanese and why I'm not
learning a jib way and the basic I mean
the short story is I got asked just the
other day by a student not by Professor
this time what I would be doing if i won
the lottery if I
money and unlimited choices and I still
said just the other day no question I
would work on first nations languages
first nations politics and the overlap
between languages and politics which of
course includes questions of education
policy language endangerment language
extinction what's going to happen in the
next hundred years of these languages I
still care passionately about First
Nations politics and I would again if
there were unlimited money on unlimited
choices that be filled by looking into
the situation today in that discipline
is a product of the last 50 years of
history that's generally true of all
academic disciplines perhaps all fields
of human endeavor very generally uh
obviously the Canadian government was
not capable of reversing a history of
incredible racism and basically pro
genocide Pro assimilation policies
overnight it was not possible to create
robust University departments studying
and teaching these languages where
formerly the whole establishment existed
to try to drive these languages into
extinction now whether or not the Kenyan
government has really tried how whether
or not the Canadian government has been
more successful than other governments
around the world it could be compared to
those are interesting questions and I
think overall Canada would get a pretty
bad grade we have done very poorly
within the last 50 years in reversing
basically a genocidal policy to a policy
of preservation and promulgation of you
know trying to really promote the new
use and extended use of these languages
but I guess this brings me to my final
48 I have a daughter if you've looked
through the YouTube videos on this
channel you can see what she looks like
I have a two-year-old daughter and there
is pressure on me of course to earn a
living so the situation for first
nations languages and academia within
Canada and my options to get an MA
language now ultimately I just do not
have time to sit around and wait for
Canadian academia to get its act
together
you
and sorry the one thing I omitted to say
earlier is what's unique about first
nations languages is the isolation of
Canadian academia in every other field
Canadian universities rely on
universities from other countries to
provide them with talent to provide them
with resources you know like naturally
if I tell you what something like
Sanskrit in Canada a country the size of
candidate doesn't presume to produce all
of its own talent or to produce all of
its own textbooks there's no need for
Canada to be independent in that
obviously Canada can recruit talent from
India from Europe and from the United
States now in Canada almost every field
of expertise almost every discipline you
can imagine is in this sense globalized
and you know you can say critically some
fields more than others really live
belong in total dependence on maybe
institutions the United States maybe
institutions in England what Canada
hasn't developed enough of a capacity
internally to do what it needs to do um
well guess what with a subject like Cree
or a jib way with languages that exists
primarily within Canada I mean the case
of Cree there is one talent in the
united states that speaks create a jib
way there is so much of a presence the
United States but did these are canada's
problem academically speaking how we're
going to teach and study these languages
it isn't Francis problem it is a
Germany's problem and it isn't really a
problem for the United States to solve
and I can remember talking with that
with a professor from University of
Minnesota and he wrote back to me and
said look here at University of
Minnesota we have some resources for
this stuff but ultimately it's all up to
you guys in Canada we can't take this on
we can't tackle this we can't solve
these problems beyond a certain very
limited ability I appreciate him for his
honesty but this is one of the very few
fields where you got to say no it's all
Candice responsibility and I mentioned
just because of my interest in ecology
I'm aware you know
actually with the the far north with the
Arctic Canada is not alone in the same
way because it is a very robust academic
tradition in England the British have an
amazing academic tradition of Polar
Circle studies from environmental groups
like the Arctic method emergency group
of fascinating youtube channel by the
way to anthropology of the Arctic of
course exploration in the architect of
British were very proud of the rest
you're there so south of the Arctic
Circle that's an especially bad
situation now look those of you who know
me personally and even those you don't
might have expected this video to have
more emotional agonizing over the
situation with my daughter and the
pressure on me to earn a living and that
kind of family dynamic or psychological
dynamic um I have to say again a good
thing about the YouTube channel is that
you get to see the look at my eyes even
though my eyes now are extremely
exhausted due to jetlag hear the tone of
my voice I really think that you know in
relation to one's children and one's
emotions the strongest feelings are
exactly instinctual feelings I do feel a
very strong sense of love for my
daughter and I felt that when I was in
the room with her even though I hadn't
seen her at such a long time when we
were reunited in France just now um I do
on an instinctual level also feel
concern for my daughter which is really
a fancy word for fear um you know that
your your concern for her well-being and
on a really deep instinctual level you
feel that as fear but I've got to say I
think in general you're you're deluding
yourself as a human being if you think
these types of deeply rooted instinctual
behaviors and feelings really translate
directly into an intellectually complex
form in things such as examining your
PhD options that kind of takes place on
another level and
you know although I am making decisions
that are guided by my concern that I
want to spend time with my daughter I
want to live in the same country that my
daughter lives in and I want to have a
career that provides me with the money I
need to visit her and provide for her
and so on again those things are
intellectual they are not instinctual
they are not the sort of thing that
makes you suddenly break down crying on
YouTube although there are plenty of
other YouTube channels where you can
watch single parents break down crying
over their agonies in this respect day
to day and week to week I just met up
with and chatted with a bunch of my
professors at the University of at the
start of the new term and of course they
have these same questions on their mind
themselves and these are the same things
they want to talk about with me and
again um the great thing about YouTube
is that you can hear the tone of my
voice I i am not seething with
resentment over this in many ways i can
sympathize with all the different
players in the game including some of
the people who have kind of snubbed me
or slammed the door in my face on the
other hand what I don't sympathize with
our people who are choosing to
misrepresent what my position is and has
been people who are kind of trying to
cast blame and responsibility onto me
for things that ultimately are other
people's decisions you have to be honest
with yourself politically and socially
about the existence of hierarchy in this
world a professor who is the head of a
department makes decisions and a student
follows orders and lives with those
decisions it's like a chain of command
in the military you have to be
comfortable with this fundamental
inequality and then not blame the people
who are lower down in the order for
decisions that are made higher up in the
order whether those decisions are going
to bed and I've been in the position of
talking to many many professors and
saying well it's your decision here's
what I have to offer and as you've seen
even in the letter i posted in this
video many professors right back saying
very flattering things and in each case
it has not worked out or
proven to be impossible for different
reasons